once in a while a record a video that I
think is so deeply offensive to my
audience that I'm really not sure if I'm
going to end up sharing it with the
public uploading it when I start
speaking of the camera life is unfair
life is unequal in many videos in the
past I've emphasized that when we're
dealing with the shallow skin deep world
of beauty weight loss diets fashion
acting you know going to auditions as an
actor we're dealing with a part of life
on earth that is maybe especially unfair
that's maybe especially judgmental about
things that none of us have the power to
change I wish I could tell you that when
we get into the life of the mind or the
life of the Spirit that life becomes
more equal certainly when I was a child
that was a delusion that was very
precious to me I wanted to believe that
in terms of intelligence we were all
born equal that related to things I was
taught in school that related to things
I was taught by television and going
through you know a government school
system it's a very convenient sort of
myth to live by one of the very few
concepts I can say I inherited from my
father that was really wise and useful
is the concept of attitudinal learning
we don't just learn facts we learn
attitudes where I differ from my father
is the emphasis I place on the way in
which attitudes tend to prevent us and
preclude us from learning new facts from
having new experiences in life I was
just looking at yet another channel from
yet another person who went to Chiang
Mai Thailand and went to Laos went to
places that have been a big part of my
life and
this person is still living with the
delusion that what the internet needs is
yet another video titled what I eat in a
day in Chiang Mai Thailand high-carb
low-fat vegan etc as if the question of
what a high-carb low-fat vegan would eat
in Chiang Mai Thailand is a mystery that
nobody knows the answer to and that all
of us on the internet are waiting for
this information this is the most over
publicized over documented question ever
to be answered in the internet and how
many people were ever interested answer
that question the first place it can't
be that many so it's a niche market with
a niche market so saturated but that's
not what this video is about i really
wish i were shizune enough to make a
video right now saying that this person
who's on permanent vacation in Thailand
I think more than a year long vacation
in this case i wish i could say if only
this person would enroll in language
classes learning the thai language
you're learning the language or
cambodian or something or hmong many
different languages there or burmese
shan if only this person enrolled in a
language course if only this person
volunteered to do humanitarian work they
would have a much more meaningful
experience entirely in this part of asia
but the reality is if you're on the
ground and you meet the people who do
that the vast majority of people who
enroll in language classes do not have
any kind of meaningful experience or any
kind of meaningful engagement they don't
learn anything from it the vast majority
of people who do humanitarian work
especially when that humanitarian work
is directly linked to a vacation
basically holiday humanitarian work
learn nothing from the experience etc
etc the shallowness that people bring to
those opportunities tends to totally
preclude any possibility of learning
something having transformative
experience are just just gaining new
information asking worth
all questions and coming up with new
answers while they're out there and this
is the strange thing about you know
attitudes as opposed to facts as opposed
to questions of raw innate intelligence
as opposed to questions of the capacity
to learn I'll always remember that I got
off a bus in lung / bong northern Laos
and there was a young American woman who
was there as a tourist alone she was a
single female tourists and she had just
overheard the conversation I was having
with my girlfriend of time this is a
long-term girlfriend she was a Canadian
like myself she wasn't a loud person but
on the bus I was talking to my
girlfriend about history and politics of
Laos you know the history of that area
and what have you and so for whatever
reason this this American tourists you
know her ears pricked up and she got
interested oh look you know do you mind
if I talk with you as we got off the bus
do you mind if I go along with you
because you wanted to learn more about
this place she had bought a very
expensive airplane ticket to visit and
that she knew nothing about so
immediately after getting off the bus we
did something that at that time was very
common for tourists to do we walked up
the little mountain that's in the middle
of the city of Loompa bong it's really a
hill people call it a mountain whatever
we walked up to the top of it and at
that time there was the rotating bracket
for a large anti-aircraft gun a machine
gun used to shoot down aircraft uh I
knew it was going to be there before I
got there so I wasn't shocked to see it
and I knew of course the history of the
Wars of the area so when we got to this
thing and we did while walking up me and
my girlfriend the stranger we're talking
about politics and history of the area
and the you know the tourists had
questions my girlfriend had questions
and I had answers and whatever it was I
was a very unequal conversation it
wasn't like there were all three people
that had that kind of background so i
was doing most of the answering and the
two women were doing asking most of the
questions and we got to the top and my
girlfriend who knew to expect to see
this also
she said something oh you know there it
is oh yeah you know he said oh yeah
right and this tourist had no idea what
this sort of strange machine was the
strange attraction I don't know if it's
still there by the way it may be still
there may be that the government said to
remove it at long last and I said yeah
it's a it's a Russian anti-aircraft
bracket it's a rotating bracket for a
you know a giant russian-made machine
gun as I recall maybe misremembered
there were a few stamped in letters you
know tooled in letters into the into the
metal that still reflected the fact that
it was Russian of Russian origin to
distant memory now uh and this American
tourist was completely shocked and
astounded and she asked what do you mean
why would the Russians have built a
military installation here whose
airplanes were the shooting at I looked
at her and I said do you not know that
your country the United States of
America dropped more bombs on this
country on Laos then they dropped on
Germany in the whole of World War two do
you not know that louse is either the
most heavily bombed country in the
history of the world or at least in the
top three and how those are debated
statistics the amount of munitions
dropped on Laos is absolutely
unbelievable and when you look into
details it's very hard to calculate
because the United States operated so
many separate legally separate covert
Air Force's primarily ought to be saen
thailand other drunk other bombs were
dropped by airplanes coming from the
ocean flying over Vietnam but it's not
the case you can just add up the bombs
dropped by one air force there were many
many many different air forces legally
and jurisdictionally all to all of them
of course under the American umbrella
bombing the hell out of this incredibly
poor remote country that was not a
threat to anyone it was not even a
threat to Thailand which is right next
door
so you know I walked up the hill with
this girl obviously we had this very
memorable moment at the top of the hill
by this giant machine gun bracket and
then he we at least continue talking as
we walk down the hill I think we parted
ways with her at a cafe or something
cafe or restaurant went off to some
vegetarian restaurant or what have you
um doesn't matter she didn't learn
anything from what I told her at that
time I mean I had all kinds of facts
memorized I mean I right now this is
from memory but I don't remember I knew
about how many bombs I knew what year
the bombing started and when it stopped
and I knew about you know the French
presence and the American presence of
the Holy Spirit was all fresh in my mind
I probably knew the dates of you know a
lot of the legal agreements surrounding
the war and all kinds of stuff doesn't
matter and you know I'm not saying I
burden her with that stuff but you know
at that time the depth and variety of
facts I had at my disposal was
tremendous but she did not have an
attitude of wanting to know of wanting
to learn of wanting to get out of that
experience anything I don't even know
she probably had some idea of Lao
culture in the same kind of shallow way
that tourists to go to Hawaii often have
a shallow idea about indigenous Hawaiian
culture like literally you know women
dancing in revealing attire Riley what
she came there to see what she expected
Lao culture to be or why she ever went
to Laos is hard for me to guess but
obviously had had nothing to do with the
political reality of what that country
was at that time and nothing to do with
the fact that the United States had a
budget in the millions or billions that
totally reshaped the history and fate of
that culture that country the culture of
what it is today etc um the people who
choose to go to Thailand now and to
completely ignore that it's a military
dictatorship it's a military
dictatorship that destroyed a system of
elected democracy people who go to Laos
and have no
the fact that it's a communist
dictatorship the problem is not access
to fax the problem is not even knowing
or not knowing facts the problem is a
matter of attitude that you know it's
not within my power to change and it's
very difficult you know both
philosophically and practically once you
get into questioning what it is that
changes people or that allows people to
make that kind of change why is it that
two different guys can do exactly the
same gig of humanitarian work and one of
them sees the social problems and
another doesn't the others just totally
blind to one of them learned so much
learn so much about that place loans
learned so much about himself changes as
a person and has deep and meaningful
connections with other people in that
locale that change them and for someone
else it's just a job and they feel none
of that and you know obviously they may
do things to amuse themselves they may
go swimming or enjoy themselves would
have you I mean really living in the
field you see that again and again and
again and even though it may seem pinal
by contrast contrast to the humanitarian
worker contrast of learning languages to
the process of learning language can
really change you can change you in ways
you don't even anticipate just being on
a university campus just taking the same
course naturally I can sit through
lectures and has a totally different
meaning for me than it has for the
person sitting next to me and for some
people it's nothing and for some people
it's deeply emotionally effective I had
one course we were talking about
massacres that took place in China and
down to some details where it's not just
that people killed each other acts of
cannibalism acts of revenge gruesome
brutal human reality that were little
facets of you know communist revolution
communal violence in in China you know
there were points at which the only
people who are getting emotionally
choked up or emotionally involved or me
and the professor
no I noticed that mean it's possible
there was someone at the back of the
class but I doubt it was a small
classroom and by that point the course I
knew most of the students and there are
students who are sitting there checking
their Facebook on their mobile phone you
just don't give a damn any of there are
students in the middle who are kind of
this is mildly interesting for them but
they'd rather be at home watching reruns
of Seinfeld on TV or something and is
arranged there but what is that what is
the difference in attitude between me
and another student that class that
makes me take that seriously and leads
me to learn something much more than
mere facts and you know obviously in
that case that Professor some professors
don't care but that particular professor
of that course he really did care he
really was connected to that history in
a way that's much more than factual I
made this video partly because i have
always since the start of my channel i
have always received email from people
who themselves are in thailand or
somewhere on that spectrum living
something like the permanent vacation
left though i have always received email
from people asking me for advice about
what they should do to lead a more
meaningful life given that they're
already in Thailand or given that
they've already bought their airplane
ticket or planned their six months or
their one year in Southeast Asia I get
messages from people who I don't know
asking me how can they be a better
person and it's not fake that's the
realest thing there is and you think
about the kind of humility and poise and
self this is what process brought them
to write me that email you know today in
the 21st century how many people ever
talk to a priest that way how many
people ever talk to a religious leader
and ask that kind of question like what
do you think I should do to be a better
person given these circumstances and a
lot of them are hoping alas all right
back saying here's a humanitarian
project you can volunteer for here's a
library you can go to here's a course
you can sign up for whether they may be
thinking about a language course they
maybe think about a meditation course or
you know a Buddhist monastery that has a
course
but it's philosophy they may be thinking
about some other experience everything
about going kayaking I mean oh come on
let's let's be real they may be hoping I
give them something more entertaining to
do but sure some of those people want to
roll up their sleeves and wash the feet
of the poor or roll up their pant legs
and get out in a rice field and see what
it's like to plant rice on a farm in
third world conditions let me tell you
if you do it barefoot there are leeches
depends where you get you can get
leeches on your ankles working on those
working in those fields and you get used
to it too um anyway um but the truth is
I mean I find it very very hard to give
advice to people where I don't know them
I don't mean that in a profound and
personal sense but where I don't know
their attitudes I don't know what
attitudes they are bringing to the game
because those attitudes will really
profoundly shape their experience and it
will preclude them from learning some
things and it will even preclude them
from perceiving some things what
problems they see what problems they
seek to solve and what kind of a process
they go through as they change as
individuals and as they seek to change
the world and make the world a better
place that is just a very very tough
call by email over the Internet if I
don't really know you so that's where
I'm going to wrap up this video all you
people have written to me I don't know
how many of you are still with my
channel are still watching over the
years um I appreciate you know those
questions you sent me that the realest
questions in the world but that's the
realest answer I can give there are just
so many people you know where literally
you know there's no way
there's no way i can recommend that you
repeat the mistakes I made in life and
even do the things that I thought were
we're wonderful or meaning in my life
because I don't know you